Amazon Read Replicas are additional database instances,
created from a snapshot of the source database.
Read Replicas are asynchronously
updated when there are changes made to the source database,
and they are available in AWS, RDS for MySQL,
MariaDB, PostgresSQL, Oracle, and AWS Aurora.
Read Replicas provide improved performance for read heavy database workloads,
by allowing read-only connections,
and that's reducing traffic to the source database,
and freeing the source database to carry out
other resource intensive database operations.
Read Replicas are good for
database applications that have intensive reporting requirements,
like Business Intelligence or financial engines.
Because they transfer the intensive queries away from the source database,
and provide results faster,
and if necessary, a Read Replica can be promoted to
become a standalone database instance in a disaster recovery scenario.
So now that we've created our new database cluster in instance,
udacitycloudlabdb, we're going to add a Read Replica to the instance.
So we're going to select our cluster,
and under Actions Add reader,
no preference for A-Z,
obviously not publicly accessible,
and let's give it a name,
udacitycloudlabreader, and we'll say tier zero,
which means if there's a fail over,
then this reader will have the priority,
even though it is the only reader,
that's fine, and performance insights, no.
By saying yes to maintenance,
this means that we're going to allow AWS to do
database instance engine updates if they're
minor automatically without us having to intervene.
So let's go ahead and add the reader,
and give it a couple seconds here.
Hit "Refresh", so our reader is here,
Read Replica and it's creating status.
Let's just stay here for a few minutes until we have our reader available.
So I'm going to refresh it here in a couple minutes and see what we got.
So let's take a look at our reader.
We will see that now it's in the status of configuring enhanced monitoring,
so it's almost finished,
and we'll notice that it's in a different availability zone than the writer.
So the writer is in US East 1C,
or Northern Virginia 1C,
and our reader is in US East 1D.
It's almost finished here.
Let's hit "Refresh" one more time here to see if
our Read Replica is available. Thanks everyone.